topic/k2c-qli-build-ga/build_with_standalone_commands_unreg.rst, before:

.. _build_with_standalone_commands_unreg:

Build with standalone commands
-----------------------------------

.. _section_twd_1bv_xbc_vinayjk_07-02-24-2039-30-667:

Ubuntu host setup
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The Ubuntu host machine must be setup to ensure that the
required software tools are installed and configured for use.

1. Install the following packages to prepare your host environment for
   Yocto build:

   ::

      sudo apt update
      sudo apt install repo gawk wget git diffstat unzip texinfo gcc build-essential chrpath socat cpio python3 python3-pip python3-pexpect xz-utils debianutils iputils-ping python3-git python3-jinja2 libegl1-mesa libsdl1.2-dev pylint xterm python3-subunit mesa-common-dev zstd liblz4-tool locales tar python-is-python3 file libxml-opml-simplegen-perl vim whiptail

2. Set up the locales (if not set up already):

   ::

      sudo locale-gen en_US.UTF-8
      sudo update-locale LC_ALL=en_US.UTF-8 LANG=en_US.UTF-8
      export LC_ALL=en_US.UTF-8
      export LANG=en_US.UTF-8

3. Update git configurations:

   ::

      # Check if your identity is configured in .gitconfig
      git config --get user.email
      git config --get user.name

      # Run the following commands if you do not have your account identity set in .gitconfig
      git config --global user.email <Your email ID>
      git config --global user.name <"Your Name">

      # Add the following UI color option for output of console (optional)
      git config --global color.ui auto

      # Add the following git configurations to fetch large size repositories and to avoid unreliable connections
      git config --global http.postBuffer 1048576000
      git config --global http.maxRequestBuffer 1048576000
      git config --global http.lowSpeedLimit 0
      git config --global http.lowSpeedTime 999999

.. _section_y32_1zy_v1c:

Sync
^^^^^^^

This section uses the Repo tool installed in :ref:`Ubuntu host setup <section_twd_1bv_xbc_vinayjk_07-02-24-2039-30-667>` to download git repositories and additional attributes from the `Qualcomm manifest <https://github.com/quic-yocto/qcom-manifest>`__. The Repo tool downloads the manifests using the ``repo init`` command.

The following table shows an example mapping of Yocto layers to the manifest release tags, and this mapping is used to download and build Qualcomm Linux.

.. list-table:: Yocto layers mapped to manifest release tags
   :header-rows: 1
   :class: longtable


   * - Yocto layers
     - Manifest release tag
     - Reference distribution (``DISTRO``)

   * - 
        - ``meta-qcom``
        - ``meta-qcom-hwe``
        - ``meta-qcom-distro``
     - BSP build: High-level OS and prebuilt firmware (GPS only)
       
       ``qcom-6.6.38-QLI.1.2-Ver.1.1.xml``
     - ``qcom-wayland``

   * - 
        - ``meta-qcom``
        - ``meta-qcom-hwe``
        - ``meta-qcom-distro``
        - ``meta-qcom-qim-product-sdk``
     - BSP build + QIMP SDK build:
       
       ``qcom-6.6.38-QLI.1.2-Ver.1.1_qim-product-sdk-1.1.2.xml``
     - ``qcom-wayland``
   * - 
        - ``meta-qcom``
        - ``meta-qcom-hwe``
        - ``meta-qcom-distro``
        - ``meta-qcom-realtime``
     - BSP build + Real-time kernel build:
       
       ``qcom-6.6.38-QLI.1.2-Ver.1.1_realtime-linux-1.0.xml``
     - ``qcom-wayland``
   * - 
        - ``meta-qcom``
        - ``meta-qcom-hwe``
        - ``meta-qcom-distro``
        - ``meta-ros``
        - ``meta-qcom-robotics``
        - ``meta-qcom-robotics-distro``
        - ``meta-qcom-robotics-sdk``
        - ``meta-qcom-qim-product-sdk``
     - BSP build + QIRP SDK build:
       
       ``qcom-6.6.38-QLI.1.2-Ver.1.1_robotics-product-sdk-1.1.xml``
     - ``qcom-robotics-ros2-humble``

.. note::
   - Syntax for the manifest release tag:
     
     ``qcom-<Linux LTS Kernel Version>-QLI.<version>-Ver.<release>.xml``
    
     For example, the manifest release tag ``qcom-6.6.38-QLI.1.2-Ver.1.1.xml`` denotes the following:
     
     - 6.6.38: Linux Kernel
     - QLI.1.2: Qualcomm Linux v1.2
     - 1.0: Milestone release

   - Syntax for the additional productization manifest release tag:
   
     ``qcom-<Linux LTS Kernel version>-QLI.<version>-Ver.<release>_<product/customization>-<release>.xml``

     For example, the additional productization manifest release tag ``qcom-6.6.38-QLI.1.2-Ver.1.1_qim-product-sdk-1.1.2.xml`` denotes the following:
     
     - 6.6.38: Linux Kernel
     - QLI.1.2: Qualcomm Linux v1.2
     - qim-product-sdk-1.1.1: QIMP SDK release on top of QLI.1.2

       Other product/customization examples:

       - *realtime-linux-1.0*
       - *robotics-product-sdk-1.1*
     - 1.0: Milestone release
     - 1.1.1: Patch release associated with the milestone release

   - For more information on the Yocto layers, see `Qualcomm Linux metadata layers and descriptions <https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/80-70015-27/platform_software_features.html#qualcomm-linux-metadata-layers-overview>`__.

.. _section_sk2_xk2_fbc:

Build BSP image
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. Download Qualcomm Yocto and the supporting layers:

   ::

      # cd to directory where you have 300 GB of free storage space to create your workspaces
      mkdir <WORKSPACE_DIR>
      cd <WORKSPACE_DIR>
      repo init -u https://github.com/quic-yocto/qcom-manifest -b qcom-linux-kirkstone -m <manifest release tag>
      # Example, <manifest release tag> is qcom-6.6.38-QLI.1.2-Ver.1.1.xml
      repo sync

   .. note::  
      For the latest ``<manifest release tag>``, see the section *Build-Critical Release Tags* in the `Release Notes <https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/RNO-240929204440/>`__.

#. Set up the build environment:

   ::

      MACHINE=<machine> DISTRO=qcom-wayland QCOM_SELECTED_BSP=<override> source setup-environment
      # Example, MACHINE=qcs6490-rb3gen2-vision-kit DISTRO=qcom-wayland QCOM_SELECTED_BSP=custom source setup-environment
      # source setup-environment: Sets the environment, creates the build directory build-qcom-wayland,
      # and enters into build-qcom-wayland directory.

   .. note::
      For various ``<machine>`` and ``<override>`` combinations, see `Release Notes <https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/RNO-240929204440/>`__.

#. Build the software image:

   .. note::
      For supported image recipes, see :ref:`Image recipes supported in the GitHub workflow <section_x3c_n5l_zbc_vinayjk_07-08-24-1744-58-455>`.

   ::

      bitbake <image recipe>
      # Example, bitbake qcom-multimedia-image

   After a successful build, check that the ``system.img`` file is in the ``<workspace_path>/build-qcom-wayland/tmp-glibc/deploy/images/qcs6490-rb3gen2-vision-kit/qcom-multimedia-image`` directory:

   ::

      cd <workspace_path>/build-qcom-wayland/tmp-glibc/deploy/images/qcs6490-rb3gen2-vision-kit/qcom-multimedia-image
      ls -al system.img

.. _section_lrb_1nd_fbc:

Build QIMP SDK image
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. Download Qualcomm Yocto and the supporting layers:

   .. note:: 
      - The ``<manifest release tag>`` for the QIMP SDK build is the same as the BSP build. Clone the QIMP SDK layer on top of the BSP build. 
      - For the latest ``<manifest release tag>``, see the section *Build-Critical Release Tags* in the `Release Notes <https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/RNO-240929204440/>`__.

   ::

      # cd to directory where you have 300 GB of free storage space to create your workspaces
      mkdir <WORKSPACE_DIR>
      cd <WORKSPACE_DIR>
      repo init -u https://github.com/quic-yocto/qcom-manifest -b qcom-linux-kirkstone -m <manifest release tag>
      # Example, <manifest release tag> is qcom-6.6.38-QLI.1.2-Ver.1.1.xml
      repo sync

#. Clone the QIMP SDK layer into the workspace:

   ::

      git clone https://github.com/quic-yocto/meta-qcom-qim-product-sdk -b <meta-qcom-qim-product-sdk release tag> layers/meta-qcom-qim-product-sdk
      # Example, <meta-qcom-qim-product-sdk release tag> is qcom-6.6.38-QLI.1.2-Ver.1.1_qim-product-sdk-1.1.2

   To build a QIMP SDK layer, the following export is required:

   ::

      export EXTRALAYERS="meta-qcom-qim-product-sdk"

#. Set up the build environment:

   ::

      MACHINE=<machine> DISTRO=qcom-wayland QCOM_SELECTED_BSP=custom source setup-environment
      # Example, MACHINE=qcs6490-rb3gen2-vision-kit DISTRO=qcom-wayland QCOM_SELECTED_BSP=custom source setup-environment
      # source setup-environment: Sets the environment, creates the build directory build-qcom-wayland,
      # and enters into build-qcom-wayland directory.

   .. note::
      To know the ``MACHINE`` parameter values, see `Release Notes <https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/RNO-240929204440/>`__.

#. Build the software image:

   ::

      bitbake qcom-multimedia-image
      # Build SDK image
      bitbake qcom-qim-product-sdk

   After a successful build, check that the ``system.img`` file is in the ``<workspace_path>/build-qcom-wayland/tmp-glibc/deploy/images/qcs6490-rb3gen2-vision-kit/qcom-multimedia-image`` directory:

   ::

      cd <workspace_path>/build-qcom-wayland/tmp-glibc/deploy/images/qcs6490-rb3gen2-vision-kit/qcom-multimedia-image
      ls -al system.img

.. _section_gv3_czl_qbc_vinayjk_06-06-24-1402-32-392:

Build QIRP SDK image
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. Download Qualcomm Yocto and the supporting layers:

   .. note:: The ``<manifest release tag>`` for QIRP SDK build is the same as the BSP build. Clone the QIRP SDK layers on top of the BSP build.

   ::

      # cd to directory where you have 300 GB of free storage space to create your workspaces
      mkdir <WORKSPACE_DIR>
      cd <WORKSPACE_DIR>
      repo init -u https://github.com/quic-yocto/qcom-manifest -b qcom-linux-kirkstone -m <manifest release tag>
      # Example, <manifest release tag> is qcom-6.6.38-QLI.1.2-Ver.1.1.xml
      repo sync

   .. note:: For the latest ``<manifest release tag>``, see the section *Build-Critical Release Tags* in the `Release Notes <https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/RNO-240929204440/>`__.

#. Download the QIRP SDK layers into the BSP build ``<WORKSPACE DIR>`` directory:

   ::

      git clone https://github.com/ros/meta-ros -b kirkstone layers/meta-ros
      git clone https://github.com/quic-yocto/meta-qcom-robotics.git layers/meta-qcom-robotics
      git clone https://github.com/quic-yocto/meta-qcom-robotics-distro.git layers/meta-qcom-robotics-distro
      git clone https://github.com/quic-yocto/meta-qcom-robotics-sdk.git layers/meta-qcom-robotics-sdk
      git clone https://github.com/quic-yocto/meta-qcom-qim-product-sdk layers/meta-qcom-qim-product-sdk

#. Set up the build environment:

   ::

      ln -s layers/meta-qcom-robotics-distro/set_bb_env.sh ./setup-robotics-environment
      ln -s layers/meta-qcom-robotics-sdk/scripts/qirp-build ./qirp-build
      MACHINE=<machine> DISTRO=qcom-robotics-ros2-humble QCOM_SELECTED_BSP=<override> source setup-robotics-environment
      # Example, MACHINE=qcs6490-rb3gen2-vision-kit DISTRO=qcom-robotics-ros2-humble QCOM_SELECTED_BSP=custom source setup-robotics-environment
      # source setup-robotics-environment: Sets the environment, creates the build directory build-qcom-robotics-ros2-humble,
      # and enters into build-qcom-robotics-ros2-humble directory.

   .. note::
      For various ``<machine>`` and ``<override>`` combinations, see `Release Notes <https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/RNO-240929204440/>`__.

#. Build the robotics image and the QIRP SDK artifacts:

   ::

      ../qirp-build qcom-robotics-full-image

   After a successful build, check that the QIRP SDK build artifacts are at the following paths:

   ::

      QIRP SDK artifacts: <WORKSPACE DIR>/build-qcom-robotics-ros2-humble/tmp-glibc/deploy/qirpsdk_artifacts/qirp-sdk_<version>.tar.gz
      # system.img is present in the following path
      Robotics image: <WORKSPACE DIR>/build-qcom-robotics-ros2-humble/tmp-glibc/deploy/images/qcs6490-rb3gen2-vision-kit/qcom-robotics-full-image

.. _section_k51_23b_wbc_vinayjk_06-26-24-1344-54-418:

Build real-time Linux image
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. Download Qualcomm Yocto and the supporting layers:

   .. note:: The ``<manifest release tag>`` for real-time Linux image is the same as the BSP build. Clone the real-time Linux on top of the BSP build.

   ::

      # cd to directory where you have 300 GB of free storage space to create your workspaces
      mkdir <WORKSPACE_DIR>
      cd <WORKSPACE_DIR>
      repo init -u https://github.com/quic-yocto/qcom-manifest -b qcom-linux-kirkstone -m <manifest release tag>
      # Example, <manifest release tag> is qcom-6.6.38-QLI.1.2-Ver.1.1.xml
      repo sync

   .. note::  For the latest ``<manifest release tag>``, see the section *Build-Critical Release Tags* in the `Release Notes <https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/RNO-240929204440/>`__.

#. Clone the real-time Linux layer into the workspace:

   ::

      git clone https://github.com/quic-yocto/meta-qcom-realtime -b <meta-qcom-realtime release tag> layers/meta-qcom-realtime
      # Example, <meta-qcom-realtime release tag> is qcom-6.6.38-QLI.1.2-Ver.1.1_realtime-linux-1.0

   To build a real-time layer, the following export is required:

   ::

      export EXTRALAYERS="meta-qcom-realtime"

#. Set up the build environment:

   ::

      MACHINE=<machine> DISTRO=qcom-wayland QCOM_SELECTED_BSP=<override> source setup-environment
      # Example, MACHINE=qcs6490-rb3gen2-vision-kit DISTRO=qcom-wayland QCOM_SELECTED_BSP=custom source setup-environment
      # source setup-environment: Sets the environment, creates the build directory build-qcom-wayland,
      # and enters into build-qcom-wayland directory.

   .. note::
      For various ``<machine>`` and ``<override>`` combinations, see `Release Notes <https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/RNO-240929204440/>`__.

#. Build the software image:

   ::

      bitbake qcom-multimedia-image

   After a successful build, check that the ``system.img`` file is in the ``<workspace_path>/build-qcom-wayland/tmp-glibc/deploy/images/qcs6490-rb3gen2-vision-kit/qcom-multimedia-image`` directory:

   ::

      cd <workspace_path>/build-qcom-wayland/tmp-glibc/deploy/images/qcs6490-rb3gen2-vision-kit/qcom-multimedia-image
      ls -al system.img

.. _section_x2k_vnf_w1c:

Flash
^^^^^^^

To flash the software images to the device, see :doc:`Flash images <flash_images>`.

Commit message:

Implemented dev trial feedback for GA 1.2
1) Add short description for different types of builds - https://jira-dc.qualcomm.com/jira/browse/DRYRUNCR-2614
2) Add PCAT and QUD installation on QSC Launcher
3) Add clear instructions for UART configuration
4) Removed tools coloumn from host machine requirements for QSC Launcher and QSC CLI

Change-Id: I02e26e9d17338abaa63ea4f2f878dcff7ded3c41

topic/k2c-qli-build-ga/build_with_standalone_commands_unreg.rst, after:

.. _build_with_standalone_commands_unreg:

Build with standalone commands
-----------------------------------

.. _section_twd_1bv_xbc_vinayjk_07-02-24-2039-30-667:

Ubuntu host setup
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The Ubuntu host machine must be setup to ensure that the
required software tools are installed and configured for use.

1. Install the following packages to prepare your host environment for
   Yocto build:

   ::

      sudo apt update
      sudo apt install repo gawk wget git diffstat unzip texinfo gcc build-essential chrpath socat cpio python3 python3-pip python3-pexpect xz-utils debianutils iputils-ping python3-git python3-jinja2 libegl1-mesa libsdl1.2-dev pylint xterm python3-subunit mesa-common-dev zstd liblz4-tool locales tar python-is-python3 file libxml-opml-simplegen-perl vim whiptail

2. Set up the locales (if not set up already):

   ::

      sudo locale-gen en_US.UTF-8
      sudo update-locale LC_ALL=en_US.UTF-8 LANG=en_US.UTF-8
      export LC_ALL=en_US.UTF-8
      export LANG=en_US.UTF-8

3. Update git configurations:

   ::

      # Check if your identity is configured in .gitconfig
      git config --get user.email
      git config --get user.name

      # Run the following commands if you do not have your account identity set in .gitconfig
      git config --global user.email <Your email ID>
      git config --global user.name <"Your Name">

      # Add the following UI color option for output of console (optional)
      git config --global color.ui auto

      # Add the following git configurations to fetch large size repositories and to avoid unreliable connections
      git config --global http.postBuffer 1048576000
      git config --global http.maxRequestBuffer 1048576000
      git config --global http.lowSpeedLimit 0
      git config --global http.lowSpeedTime 999999

.. _section_y32_1zy_v1c:

Sync
^^^^^^^

This section uses the Repo tool installed in :ref:`Ubuntu host setup <section_twd_1bv_xbc_vinayjk_07-02-24-2039-30-667>` to download git repositories and additional attributes from the `Qualcomm manifest <https://github.com/quic-yocto/qcom-manifest>`__. The Repo tool downloads the manifests using the ``repo init`` command.

The following table shows an example mapping of Yocto layers to the manifest release tags, and this mapping is used to download and build Qualcomm Linux.

.. list-table:: Yocto layers mapped to manifest release tags
   :header-rows: 1
   :class: longtable


   * - Yocto layers
     - Manifest release tag
     - Reference distribution (``DISTRO``)

   * - 
        - ``meta-qcom``
        - ``meta-qcom-hwe``
        - ``meta-qcom-distro``
     - BSP build: High-level OS and prebuilt firmware (GPS only)
       
       ``qcom-6.6.38-QLI.1.2-Ver.1.1.xml``
     - ``qcom-wayland``

   * - 
        - ``meta-qcom``
        - ``meta-qcom-hwe``
        - ``meta-qcom-distro``
        - ``meta-qcom-qim-product-sdk``
     - BSP build + QIMP SDK build:
       
       ``qcom-6.6.38-QLI.1.2-Ver.1.1_qim-product-sdk-1.1.2.xml``
     - ``qcom-wayland``
   * - 
        - ``meta-qcom``
        - ``meta-qcom-hwe``
        - ``meta-qcom-distro``
        - ``meta-qcom-realtime``
     - BSP build + Real-time kernel build:
       
       ``qcom-6.6.38-QLI.1.2-Ver.1.1_realtime-linux-1.0.xml``
     - ``qcom-wayland``
   * - 
        - ``meta-qcom``
        - ``meta-qcom-hwe``
        - ``meta-qcom-distro``
        - ``meta-ros``
        - ``meta-qcom-robotics``
        - ``meta-qcom-robotics-distro``
        - ``meta-qcom-robotics-sdk``
        - ``meta-qcom-qim-product-sdk``
     - BSP build + QIRP SDK build:
       
       ``qcom-6.6.38-QLI.1.2-Ver.1.1_robotics-product-sdk-1.1.xml``
     - ``qcom-robotics-ros2-humble``

.. note::
   - Syntax for the manifest release tag:
     
     ``qcom-<Linux LTS Kernel Version>-QLI.<version>-Ver.<release>.xml``
    
     For example, the manifest release tag ``qcom-6.6.38-QLI.1.2-Ver.1.1.xml`` denotes the following:
     
     - 6.6.38: Linux Kernel
     - QLI.1.2: Qualcomm Linux v1.2
     - 1.0: Milestone release

   - Syntax for the additional productization manifest release tag:
   
     ``qcom-<Linux LTS Kernel version>-QLI.<version>-Ver.<release>_<product/customization>-<release>.xml``

     For example, the additional productization manifest release tag ``qcom-6.6.38-QLI.1.2-Ver.1.1_qim-product-sdk-1.1.2.xml`` denotes the following:
     
     - 6.6.38: Linux Kernel
     - QLI.1.2: Qualcomm Linux v1.2
     - qim-product-sdk-1.1.1: QIMP SDK release on top of QLI.1.2

       Other product/customization examples:

       - *realtime-linux-1.0*
       - *robotics-product-sdk-1.1*
     - 1.0: Milestone release
     - 1.1.1: Patch release associated with the milestone release

   - For more information on the Yocto layers, see `Qualcomm Linux metadata layers and descriptions <https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/80-70015-27/platform_software_features.html#qualcomm-linux-metadata-layers-overview>`__.

.. _section_sk2_xk2_fbc:

Build BSP image
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
BSP image build contains software components for Qualcomm device support and value-added software features applicable to Qualcomm SoCs. It includes a reference distribution configuration for Qualcomm products.

For more details, see `Qualcomm Linux metadata layers <https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/80-70015-27/platform_software_features.html#qualcomm-linux-metadata-layers-overview>`__.

1. Download Qualcomm Yocto and the supporting layers:

   ::

      # cd to directory where you have 300 GB of free storage space to create your workspaces
      mkdir <WORKSPACE_DIR>
      cd <WORKSPACE_DIR>
      repo init -u https://github.com/quic-yocto/qcom-manifest -b qcom-linux-kirkstone -m <manifest release tag>
      # Example, <manifest release tag> is qcom-6.6.38-QLI.1.2-Ver.1.1.xml
      repo sync

   .. note::  
      For the latest ``<manifest release tag>``, see the section *Build-Critical Release Tags* in the `Release Notes <https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/RNO-240929204440/>`__.

#. Set up the build environment:

   ::

      MACHINE=<machine> DISTRO=qcom-wayland QCOM_SELECTED_BSP=<override> source setup-environment
      # Example, MACHINE=qcs6490-rb3gen2-vision-kit DISTRO=qcom-wayland QCOM_SELECTED_BSP=custom source setup-environment
      # source setup-environment: Sets the environment, creates the build directory build-qcom-wayland,
      # and enters into build-qcom-wayland directory.

   .. note::
      For various ``<machine>`` and ``<override>`` combinations, see `Release Notes <https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/RNO-240929204440/>`__.

#. Build the software image:

   .. note::
      For supported image recipes, see :ref:`Image recipes supported in the GitHub workflow <section_x3c_n5l_zbc_vinayjk_07-08-24-1744-58-455>`.

   ::

      bitbake <image recipe>
      # Example, bitbake qcom-multimedia-image

   After a successful build, check that the ``system.img`` file is in the ``<workspace_path>/build-qcom-wayland/tmp-glibc/deploy/images/qcs6490-rb3gen2-vision-kit/qcom-multimedia-image`` directory:

   ::

      cd <workspace_path>/build-qcom-wayland/tmp-glibc/deploy/images/qcs6490-rb3gen2-vision-kit/qcom-multimedia-image
      ls -al system.img

.. _section_lrb_1nd_fbc:

Build QIMP SDK image
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The Qualcomm® Intelligent Multimedia Product (QIMP) SDK is a collection of four standalone function SDKs, namely, Qualcomm® Intelligent Multimedia SDK (IM SDK), Qualcomm® Neural Processing SDK, Qualcomm® AI Engine direct SDK, and the TensorFlow Lite runtime. It also includes reference applications that you can use to develop use cases. 

For more details, see `QIMP SDK Quick Start Guide <https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/80-70015-51>`__.

1. Download Qualcomm Yocto and the supporting layers:

   .. note:: 
      - The ``<manifest release tag>`` for the QIMP SDK build is the same as the BSP build. Clone the QIMP SDK layer on top of the BSP build. 
      - For the latest ``<manifest release tag>``, see the section *Build-Critical Release Tags* in the `Release Notes <https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/RNO-240929204440/>`__.

   ::

      # cd to directory where you have 300 GB of free storage space to create your workspaces
      mkdir <WORKSPACE_DIR>
      cd <WORKSPACE_DIR>
      repo init -u https://github.com/quic-yocto/qcom-manifest -b qcom-linux-kirkstone -m <manifest release tag>
      # Example, <manifest release tag> is qcom-6.6.38-QLI.1.2-Ver.1.1.xml
      repo sync

#. Clone the QIMP SDK layer into the workspace:

   ::

      git clone https://github.com/quic-yocto/meta-qcom-qim-product-sdk -b <meta-qcom-qim-product-sdk release tag> layers/meta-qcom-qim-product-sdk
      # Example, <meta-qcom-qim-product-sdk release tag> is qcom-6.6.38-QLI.1.2-Ver.1.1_qim-product-sdk-1.1.2

   To build a QIMP SDK layer, the following export is required:

   ::

      export EXTRALAYERS="meta-qcom-qim-product-sdk"

#. Set up the build environment:

   ::

      MACHINE=<machine> DISTRO=qcom-wayland QCOM_SELECTED_BSP=custom source setup-environment
      # Example, MACHINE=qcs6490-rb3gen2-vision-kit DISTRO=qcom-wayland QCOM_SELECTED_BSP=custom source setup-environment
      # source setup-environment: Sets the environment, creates the build directory build-qcom-wayland,
      # and enters into build-qcom-wayland directory.

   .. note::
      To know the ``MACHINE`` parameter values, see `Release Notes <https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/RNO-240929204440/>`__.

#. Build the software image:

   ::

      bitbake qcom-multimedia-image
      # Build SDK image
      bitbake qcom-qim-product-sdk

   After a successful build, check that the ``system.img`` file is in the ``<workspace_path>/build-qcom-wayland/tmp-glibc/deploy/images/qcs6490-rb3gen2-vision-kit/qcom-multimedia-image`` directory:

   ::

      cd <workspace_path>/build-qcom-wayland/tmp-glibc/deploy/images/qcs6490-rb3gen2-vision-kit/qcom-multimedia-image
      ls -al system.img

.. _section_gv3_czl_qbc_vinayjk_06-06-24-1402-32-392:

Build QIRP SDK image
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The Qualcomm® Intelligent Robotics Product (QIRP) SDK 2.0 is a collection of components that enable you to develop robotic features on Qualcomm platforms. This SDK is applicable to the Qualcomm Linux releases.

For more details, see `QIRP SDK 2.0 User Guide <https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/80-70015-265>`__.

1. Download Qualcomm Yocto and the supporting layers:

   .. note:: The ``<manifest release tag>`` for QIRP SDK build is the same as the BSP build. Clone the QIRP SDK layers on top of the BSP build.

   ::

      # cd to directory where you have 300 GB of free storage space to create your workspaces
      mkdir <WORKSPACE_DIR>
      cd <WORKSPACE_DIR>
      repo init -u https://github.com/quic-yocto/qcom-manifest -b qcom-linux-kirkstone -m <manifest release tag>
      # Example, <manifest release tag> is qcom-6.6.38-QLI.1.2-Ver.1.1.xml
      repo sync

   .. note:: For the latest ``<manifest release tag>``, see the section *Build-Critical Release Tags* in the `Release Notes <https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/RNO-240929204440/>`__.

#. Download the QIRP SDK layers into the BSP build ``<WORKSPACE DIR>`` directory:

   ::

      git clone https://github.com/ros/meta-ros -b kirkstone layers/meta-ros
      git clone https://github.com/quic-yocto/meta-qcom-robotics.git layers/meta-qcom-robotics
      git clone https://github.com/quic-yocto/meta-qcom-robotics-distro.git layers/meta-qcom-robotics-distro
      git clone https://github.com/quic-yocto/meta-qcom-robotics-sdk.git layers/meta-qcom-robotics-sdk
      git clone https://github.com/quic-yocto/meta-qcom-qim-product-sdk layers/meta-qcom-qim-product-sdk

#. Set up the build environment:

   ::

      ln -s layers/meta-qcom-robotics-distro/set_bb_env.sh ./setup-robotics-environment
      ln -s layers/meta-qcom-robotics-sdk/scripts/qirp-build ./qirp-build
      MACHINE=<machine> DISTRO=qcom-robotics-ros2-humble QCOM_SELECTED_BSP=<override> source setup-robotics-environment
      # Example, MACHINE=qcs6490-rb3gen2-vision-kit DISTRO=qcom-robotics-ros2-humble QCOM_SELECTED_BSP=custom source setup-robotics-environment
      # source setup-robotics-environment: Sets the environment, creates the build directory build-qcom-robotics-ros2-humble,
      # and enters into build-qcom-robotics-ros2-humble directory.

   .. note::
      For various ``<machine>`` and ``<override>`` combinations, see `Release Notes <https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/RNO-240929204440/>`__.

#. Build the robotics image and the QIRP SDK artifacts:

   ::

      ../qirp-build qcom-robotics-full-image

   After a successful build, check that the QIRP SDK build artifacts are at the following paths:

   ::

      QIRP SDK artifacts: <WORKSPACE DIR>/build-qcom-robotics-ros2-humble/tmp-glibc/deploy/qirpsdk_artifacts/qirp-sdk_<version>.tar.gz
      # system.img is present in the following path
      Robotics image: <WORKSPACE DIR>/build-qcom-robotics-ros2-humble/tmp-glibc/deploy/images/qcs6490-rb3gen2-vision-kit/qcom-robotics-full-image

.. _section_k51_23b_wbc_vinayjk_06-26-24-1344-54-418:

Build real-time Linux image
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The real-time layer provides recipes and configurations required to run the Linux kernel as a real-time kernel. The real-time kernel runs with preemption fully enabled through a configuration, ``CONFIG_PREEMPT_RT=y``. This layer supports ``linux-kernel-qcom-rt`` recipe that fetches and builds the Linux kernel for the supported machine. This layer appends to kernel and the upstream ``PREEMPT_RT`` patches, based on the kernel version and enables real-time configurations.

For more details, see `Real-time kernel <https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/80-70015-3/features.html#real-time-(rt)-kernel-overview>`__.

1. Download Qualcomm Yocto and the supporting layers:

   .. note:: The ``<manifest release tag>`` for real-time Linux image is the same as the BSP build. Clone the real-time Linux on top of the BSP build.

   ::

      # cd to directory where you have 300 GB of free storage space to create your workspaces
      mkdir <WORKSPACE_DIR>
      cd <WORKSPACE_DIR>
      repo init -u https://github.com/quic-yocto/qcom-manifest -b qcom-linux-kirkstone -m <manifest release tag>
      # Example, <manifest release tag> is qcom-6.6.38-QLI.1.2-Ver.1.1.xml
      repo sync

   .. note::  For the latest ``<manifest release tag>``, see the section *Build-Critical Release Tags* in the `Release Notes <https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/RNO-240929204440/>`__.

#. Clone the real-time Linux layer into the workspace:

   ::

      git clone https://github.com/quic-yocto/meta-qcom-realtime -b <meta-qcom-realtime release tag> layers/meta-qcom-realtime
      # Example, <meta-qcom-realtime release tag> is qcom-6.6.38-QLI.1.2-Ver.1.1_realtime-linux-1.0

   To build a real-time layer, the following export is required:

   ::

      export EXTRALAYERS="meta-qcom-realtime"

#. Set up the build environment:

   ::

      MACHINE=<machine> DISTRO=qcom-wayland QCOM_SELECTED_BSP=<override> source setup-environment
      # Example, MACHINE=qcs6490-rb3gen2-vision-kit DISTRO=qcom-wayland QCOM_SELECTED_BSP=custom source setup-environment
      # source setup-environment: Sets the environment, creates the build directory build-qcom-wayland,
      # and enters into build-qcom-wayland directory.

   .. note::
      For various ``<machine>`` and ``<override>`` combinations, see `Release Notes <https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/RNO-240929204440/>`__.

#. Build the software image:

   ::

      bitbake qcom-multimedia-image

   After a successful build, check that the ``system.img`` file is in the ``<workspace_path>/build-qcom-wayland/tmp-glibc/deploy/images/qcs6490-rb3gen2-vision-kit/qcom-multimedia-image`` directory:

   ::

      cd <workspace_path>/build-qcom-wayland/tmp-glibc/deploy/images/qcs6490-rb3gen2-vision-kit/qcom-multimedia-image
      ls -al system.img

.. _section_x2k_vnf_w1c:

Flash
^^^^^^^

To flash the software images to the device, see :doc:`Flash images <flash_images>`.
