topic/k2c-qli-build-ga/qsc_launcher.rst, before:

.. _concept_n2t_tjn_w1c:

Use QSC Launcher
-----------------

.. _launcher_download_sw:

Software download
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. To open the QSC Launcher desktop application, launch **Qualcomm Software Center** from the **Applications** menu.

2. Use your registered email ID to log in to the QSC desktop application. The QSC Launcher dashboard page appears.

   .. image:: ../../media/k2c-qli-build-ga/start_launcher_ab.png

   -  If you do not have a connected device, click **Start Launcher** (A) on the top panel.
   -  If you have a connected device, click **Start Launcher** (B) for the appropriate device in the **Connected devices** panel.

3. On the **Specify Environment** page, select the appropriate values for **Category**, **Chipset**, **Host Operating System**, and **Target Operating System**.

   .. note:: See `hardware SoCs (chipsets) <https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/80-70015-115/soc.html>`__ that are supported on Qualcomm Linux.

   .. image:: ../../media/k2c-qli-build-ga/specify_env.png

4. Click **Next**. The **Select Resources** page appears.
   
   .. image:: ../../media/k2c-qli-build-ga/select_resource_page.png

   a. In the **Base Workspace Path** text box, specify a directory where you want to download the software.

   b. Select the **Software Product**.

   c. Select the **Distribution** and the **Release Tag**.

      .. note::
         
         - For information on the supported distributions for your hardware SoCs, see the table *Access Controlled Distribution* in the `Release Notes <https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/RNO-240929204440/>`__.
         - For information on the Yocto layers, see `Qualcomm Linux metadata layers and descriptions <https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/80-70015-27/platform_software_features.html#qualcomm-linux-metadata-layers-overview>`__.        
         - For information on the QIMP and QIRP SDKs, see the following guides:

           - `QIMP SDK Quick Start Guide <https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/80-70015-51>`__
           - `QIRP SDK 2.0 User Guide <https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/80-70015-265>`__

5. Click **Download** to download the selected compilable distribution or flashable binary. After the software is downloaded successfully, a *Download complete* status appears.

   .. image:: ../../media/k2c-qli-build-ga/software_download_complete.png

   
   .. note:: You can also track the download progress through the **Downloads** option in the top menu bar.

   You do not have to compile flashable binaries. If you have selected a flashable binary, follow the on-screen instructions to flash to a connected device.

   .. image:: ../../media/k2c-qli-build-ga/prebuilt_compile.png

.. _launcher_build_default_config:

Build and flash default configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. _launcher_step1:

1. Compile the default build.

   .. note:: For information on the default configurations, see the table *Default values of "MACHINE" and "QCOM_SELECTED_BSP" parameters for QSC* in the `Release Notes <https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/RNO-240929204440/>`__.

   .. _launcher_compile_step:

   a. After the download is complete, select **Compile** to start compiling. Depending on the size of the downloaded software and the host machine configuration, the compilation process may take a few hours.

      .. image:: ../../media/k2c-qli-build-ga/download.png

   b. To view the compilation progress, expand the logs panel.

      .. image:: ../../media/k2c-qli-build-ga/QSC_compile_progress.png

   
   .. note:: BitBake fetch errors are typically intermittent fetch failures. To resolve these errors, retry :ref:`step 1a <launcher_compile_step>`. If the issue persists, see :ref:`BitBake Fetcher Error <do_fetch_error_1>` for a solution.

2. Flash the software with the default configuration.

   .. note:: Before you flash the software, ensure that the device is in Emergency Download (EDL) mode. For more information on how to force the device into EDL mode, see :ref:`Move to EDL mode <section_vgg_mly_v1c>`.

   a. Flash the software by selecting the device on which you want to flash the compiled software. If multiple devices are connected, select the correct target device.

      .. image:: ../../media/k2c-qli-build-ga/flash.png

   b. Click **Flash on device**. The page is updated and displays a progress bar as QSC Launcher begins flashing the software. Leave the device connected while the software is being flashed.

   c. To view the compilation progress of individual software images, expand the logs panel.

      .. image:: ../../media/k2c-qli-build-ga/flash_launcher_logs.png

   d. When the process is finished, the page displays a *Flash Complete* message.

      .. image:: ../../media/k2c-qli-build-ga/flash_launcher_flashComplete.png

   e. Click **Done**.

      .. note:: The device reboots after the flashing procedure is completed successfully. To verify the updated software version, see `Check software version <https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/80-70015-253/ubuntu_host.html#check-software-version>`__.
   
   f. To connect to the device, see :ref:`Use SSH <section_hmw_vsh_p1c_vinayjk_03-01-24-1110-45-279>`.

.. _launcher_build_own_config:

Build your own configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
To build your own configuration, compile the build for default machine configuration and then compile the LE.QCLINUX.1.0.r1 image with your own MACHINE and QCOM_SELECTED_BSP parameter values.

1. :ref:`Compile the build for the default machine configuration <launcher_build_default_config>`.

2. Compile the `LE.QCLINUX.1.0.r1` image with your own MACHINE and QCOM_SELECTED_BSP parameter values.
   
   .. note:: For information on the supported machine configurations of the development kit, see the table *MACHINE and QCOM_SELECTED_BSP parameter value* in the `Release Notes <https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/RNO-240929204440/>`__.

   a. To run the build commands for a specific configuration, click **Compile using terminal**.

      .. image:: ../../media/k2c-qli-build-ga/compile_terminal_page.png

      .. note:: Compilations initiated through the terminal are not tracked by the Qualcomm Software Center, making it impossible to track their progress on the Download page.

         .. image:: ../../media/k2c-qli-build-ga/compile_terminal_dialog.png
      
   b. Click **Open Terminal**. A terminal window with expanded default build command appears.

   c. Update the highlighted command with your own configuration and run it on the terminal:

      .. image:: ../../media/k2c-qli-build-ga/compile_terminal_new.png

      For example, to build for Qualcomm® RB3 Gen 2 Core Development Kit, change the value of ``MACHINE`` in the preceding build command to ``qcs6490-rb3gen2-core-kit``.
   
   d. After a successful build, check that the ``system.img`` file is in the ``<Base Workspace Path>/DEV/LE.QCLINUX.1.0.r1/build-<DISTRO>/tmp-glibc/deploy/images/<MACHINE>/qcom-multimedia-image`` directory with an updated timestamp. For example:

      ::

         cd <Base Workspace Path>/build-qcom-wayland/tmp-glibc/deploy/images/qcs6490-rb3gen2-core-kit/qcom-multimedia-image
         ls -al system.img
   
   .. note::      
      When compiling a software image other than ``LE.QCLINUX.1.0.r1``, ensure that you also compile both the software product and ``LE.QCLINUX.1.0.r1`` in the same order.
 
      For example, if you compile ``BOOT.MXF.1.0.c1``, ensure that you also compile the software product (such as ``QCM6490.LE.1.0``) and then ``LE.QCLINUX.1.0.r1``.

3. To flash your build, see :ref:`Flash images <flash_images>`.

   .. note::
      - Before flashing, update the build images path to the compiled build images workspace at ``<Base_Workspace_Path>/DEV/LE.QCLINUX.1.0.r1/build-<DISTRO>/tmp-glibc/deploy/images/<MACHINE>/qcom-multimedia-image``.

        For example, ``<Base Workspace Path>/build-qcom-wayland/tmp-glibc/deploy/images/qcs6490-rb3gen2-core-kit/qcom-multimedia-image``.

      - The device reboots after the flashing procedure is completed successfully. To verify the updated software version, see `Check software version <https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/80-70015-253/ubuntu_host.html#check-software-version>`__.
      - To connect to the device, see :ref:`Use SSH <section_hmw_vsh_p1c_vinayjk_03-01-24-1110-45-279>`.

Commit message:

Implemented dev trial feedback for GA 1.2
1) Add short description for different types of builds - https://jira-dc.qualcomm.com/jira/browse/DRYRUNCR-2614
2) Add PCAT and QUD installation on QSC Launcher
3) Add clear instructions for UART configuration
4) Removed tools coloumn from host machine requirements for QSC Launcher and QSC CLI

Change-Id: I02e26e9d17338abaa63ea4f2f878dcff7ded3c41

topic/k2c-qli-build-ga/qsc_launcher.rst, after:

.. _concept_n2t_tjn_w1c:

Use QSC Launcher
-----------------

.. _launcher_download_sw:

Software download
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. To open the QSC Launcher desktop application, launch **Qualcomm Software Center** from the **Applications** menu.

   .. note:: 
      For the Launcher workflow to detect connected devices and flash software builds, ensure that the Qualcomm Product Configuration Assistant Tool (PCAT) and Qualcomm USB Driver (QUD) are installed on the host machine. Click **PCAT** to install PCAT and **QUD** to install QUD as shown in the following image:

      .. image:: ../../media/k2c-qli-build-ga/QSC_has_PCAT_QUD_install_info.png

      **Or**

      Install PCAT and QUD using ``qpm-cli``:

      ::

         qpm-cli --login
         qpm-cli --install pcat --activate-default-license
         qpm-cli --install qud --activate-default-license

      The ``qpm-cli --help`` command lists the help options.

      For Ubuntu 22.04, you may encounter an issue while installing QUD where you are asked to enroll the public key on your Linux host for a
      successful QUD installation. For more details, follow the steps provided in the ``signReadme.txt`` file available at the ``/opt/QUIC/sign/`` directory.

2. Use your registered email ID to log in to the QSC desktop application. The QSC Launcher dashboard page appears.

   .. image:: ../../media/k2c-qli-build-ga/start_launcher_ab.png

   -  If you do not have a connected device, click **Start Launcher** (A) on the top panel.
   -  If you have a connected device, click **Start Launcher** (B) for the appropriate device in the **Connected devices** panel.

3. On the **Specify Environment** page, select the appropriate values for **Category**, **Chipset**, **Host Operating System**, and **Target Operating System**.

   .. note:: See `hardware SoCs (chipsets) <https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/80-70015-115/soc.html>`__ that are supported on Qualcomm Linux.

   .. image:: ../../media/k2c-qli-build-ga/specify_env.png

4. Click **Next**. The **Select Resources** page appears.
   
   .. image:: ../../media/k2c-qli-build-ga/select_resource_page.png

   a. In the **Base Workspace Path** text box, specify a directory where you want to download the software.

   b. Select the **Software Product**.

   c. Select the **Distribution** and the **Release Tag**.

      .. note::
         
         - For information on the supported distributions for your hardware SoCs, see the table *Access Controlled Distribution* in the `Release Notes <https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/RNO-240929204440/>`__.
         - For information on the Yocto layers, see `Qualcomm Linux metadata layers and descriptions <https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/80-70015-27/platform_software_features.html#qualcomm-linux-metadata-layers-overview>`__.        
         - For information on the QIMP and QIRP SDKs, see the following guides:

           - `QIMP SDK Quick Start Guide <https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/80-70015-51>`__
           - `QIRP SDK 2.0 User Guide <https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/80-70015-265>`__

5. Click **Download** to download the selected compilable distribution or flashable binary. After the software is downloaded successfully, a *Download complete* status appears.

   .. image:: ../../media/k2c-qli-build-ga/software_download_complete.png

   
   .. note:: You can also track the download progress through the **Downloads** option in the top menu bar.

   You do not have to compile flashable binaries. If you have selected a flashable binary, follow the on-screen instructions to flash to a connected device.

   .. image:: ../../media/k2c-qli-build-ga/prebuilt_compile.png

.. _launcher_build_default_config:

Build and flash default configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. _launcher_step1:

1. Compile the default build.

   .. note:: For information on the default configurations, see the table *Default values of "MACHINE" and "QCOM_SELECTED_BSP" parameters for QSC* in the `Release Notes <https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/RNO-240929204440/>`__.

   .. _launcher_compile_step:

   a. After the download is complete, select **Compile** to start compiling. Depending on the size of the downloaded software and the host machine configuration, the compilation process may take a few hours.

      .. image:: ../../media/k2c-qli-build-ga/download.png

   b. To view the compilation progress, expand the logs panel.

      .. image:: ../../media/k2c-qli-build-ga/QSC_compile_progress.png

   
   .. note:: BitBake fetch errors are typically intermittent fetch failures. To resolve these errors, retry :ref:`step 1a <launcher_compile_step>`. If the issue persists, see :ref:`BitBake Fetcher Error <do_fetch_error_1>` for a solution.

2. Flash the software with the default configuration.

   .. note:: Before you flash the software, ensure that the device is in Emergency Download (EDL) mode. For more information on how to force the device into EDL mode, see :ref:`Move to EDL mode <section_vgg_mly_v1c>`.

   a. Flash the software by selecting the device on which you want to flash the compiled software. If multiple devices are connected, select the correct target device.

      .. image:: ../../media/k2c-qli-build-ga/flash.png

   b. Click **Flash on device**. The page is updated and displays a progress bar as QSC Launcher begins flashing the software. Leave the device connected while the software is being flashed.

   c. To view the compilation progress of individual software images, expand the logs panel.

      .. image:: ../../media/k2c-qli-build-ga/flash_launcher_logs.png

   d. When the process is finished, the page displays a *Flash Complete* message.

      .. image:: ../../media/k2c-qli-build-ga/flash_launcher_flashComplete.png

   e. Click **Done**.

      .. note:: The device reboots after the flashing procedure is completed successfully. To verify the updated software version, see `Check software version <https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/80-70015-253/ubuntu_host.html#check-software-version>`__.
   
   f. To connect to the device, see :ref:`Use SSH <section_hmw_vsh_p1c_vinayjk_03-01-24-1110-45-279>`.

.. _launcher_build_own_config:

Build your own configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
To build your own configuration, compile the build for default machine configuration and then compile the LE.QCLINUX.1.0.r1 image with your own MACHINE and QCOM_SELECTED_BSP parameter values.

1. :ref:`Compile the build for the default machine configuration <launcher_build_default_config>`.

2. Compile the `LE.QCLINUX.1.0.r1` image with your own MACHINE and QCOM_SELECTED_BSP parameter values.
   
   .. note:: For information on the supported machine configurations of the development kit, see the table *MACHINE and QCOM_SELECTED_BSP parameter value* in the `Release Notes <https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/RNO-240929204440/>`__.

   a. To run the build commands for a specific configuration, click **Compile using terminal**.

      .. image:: ../../media/k2c-qli-build-ga/compile_terminal_page.png

      .. note:: Compilations initiated through the terminal are not tracked by the Qualcomm Software Center, making it impossible to track their progress on the Download page.

         .. image:: ../../media/k2c-qli-build-ga/compile_terminal_dialog.png
      
   b. Click **Open Terminal**. A terminal window with expanded default build command appears.

   c. Update the highlighted command with your own configuration and run it on the terminal:

      .. image:: ../../media/k2c-qli-build-ga/compile_terminal_new.png

      For example, to build for Qualcomm® RB3 Gen 2 Core Development Kit, change the value of ``MACHINE`` in the preceding build command to ``qcs6490-rb3gen2-core-kit``.
   
   d. After a successful build, check that the ``system.img`` file is in the ``<Base Workspace Path>/DEV/LE.QCLINUX.1.0.r1/build-<DISTRO>/tmp-glibc/deploy/images/<MACHINE>/qcom-multimedia-image`` directory with an updated timestamp. For example:

      ::

         cd <Base Workspace Path>/build-qcom-wayland/tmp-glibc/deploy/images/qcs6490-rb3gen2-core-kit/qcom-multimedia-image
         ls -al system.img
   
   .. note::      
      When compiling a software image other than ``LE.QCLINUX.1.0.r1``, ensure that you also compile both the software product and ``LE.QCLINUX.1.0.r1`` in the same order.
 
      For example, if you compile ``BOOT.MXF.1.0.c1``, ensure that you also compile the software product (such as ``QCM6490.LE.1.0``) and then ``LE.QCLINUX.1.0.r1``.

3. To flash your build, see :ref:`Flash images <flash_images>`.

   .. note::
      - Before flashing, update the build images path to the compiled build images workspace at ``<Base_Workspace_Path>/DEV/LE.QCLINUX.1.0.r1/build-<DISTRO>/tmp-glibc/deploy/images/<MACHINE>/qcom-multimedia-image``.

        For example, ``<Base Workspace Path>/build-qcom-wayland/tmp-glibc/deploy/images/qcs6490-rb3gen2-core-kit/qcom-multimedia-image``.

      - The device reboots after the flashing procedure is completed successfully. To verify the updated software version, see `Check software version <https://docs.qualcomm.com/bundle/publicresource/topics/80-70015-253/ubuntu_host.html#check-software-version>`__.
      - To connect to the device, see :ref:`Use SSH <section_hmw_vsh_p1c_vinayjk_03-01-24-1110-45-279>`.
